hello everyone welcome to the ipfs core
implementations weekly sync for Monday
the 6th of July 2020 I am making brain
I'll be your host we are going to go
through our high priority initiatives
and other initiatives and then a Q&A and
parking law etc it's gonna be amazing
we're gonna have a lovely time so to
start off upcoming and ship releases
ship anything okay we're about to ship
Jase ipfs there the next update has the
migration to multi hash storing blocked
by multi hash so what this is is
changing the key format for the data
stores fundamentally so that everything
is stored by the multinational block
rather than the floor CID so a fewer
lookups in centric said sure it's gonna
be awesome it's also going to be
significant because it's the first time
we've really done a database migration
so there's an RC out right now with the
changes in so if you're listening to
this please do check out the RC that
would be really helpful
otherwise we're going to resit later
this week for ode up for you hmm yes
anyone else
I think might do a Dean where we're
gonna do the odo six one release for go
you're muted on one of your various
machines yeah try the other one yeah the
other one still muted we can we could
table that possibly and ODOT six one
soon
who maybe fix that oh yeah we can we can
do that six-one Cinelli think there's
enough items that it's worth doing it
okay we can we can touch base later and
figure out Oh does 6.1 or whether we
just wait for all seven for this but I
know there was like I don't know if we
need update for it was like a quick
quick bug we can talk about it later
yep cool next up is pinning services all
right yep so for the API spec on the
repo some new issues opened and I
started I did a little bit of triaging
and created the milestone for the MVP
that we want that's required for web UI
integration and that includes that soft
scope we agreed on for go and JSI DFS to
implement client side of that API so at
this point I think it would be useful
I've added a section to the design
review to make it make it like a call
this week and gather some feedback from
Goa like if a suggest activist teams
basically go over API spec and see if it
fits our like minimum assumptions before
we sort of like plan to do that on in
what UI now there's like the execution
of IP i Scrolls move to the coop confess
and Jessa profess and that means no like
it will be useful if teams from JCP
Fesenko IDF has provided feedback
for we finalize this spec sorry I'm
running out of coffee this is me out of
coffee so so that's for the API and for
gosh I had something else here this is
awful I'm sorry no I maybe later I
remember I forgot totally gosh that's it
sorry you know you can have some instant
Graham use that you can just eat oh
right
so yeah the low-hanging like two
low-hanging fruits to resolve while you
are reading this spec one is access
control the there is there are two
choices one is do we want a simple API
key or do we want to do something more
flexible or useful directly proposed an
interesting scheme where we reuse PKI
which is already present on each node
well you use pide key for effectively
signing remote pinning requests and then
instead of having a vendor specific keys
you would simply in add the pinning
service you would like whitelist final
message yes exactly
so so that's a coupon part of of it and
the second one is do want to operate on
the level of actual genes that we want
to ping or do we want to apply feedback
or ideas from the pinning summit where
we had this idea that we would have a
pin object representation and the actual
CI descends to the pinning service would
not be the pin we want to pin but the
object describing the pin it
see id we want to pin with additional
metadata and I feel that's a good
starting point when you look at the
current draft and think how we would
implement API a client have those
questions in mind but I don't want to
take too much time on this we probably
will meet later this week under Section
4 design review later that's in on my
ends Jacob do you have anything then no
I'll take a look at that um today I use
block I had to do some heckuva stuff but
I will review those today and then yeah
I think we should just set up sometime
this week um for the three or four of us
to just get together and and push that
forward
next up is 8255 1:9 default keys
yeah so from
the J sort of things there is an issue
right now with how J s is importing and
exporting keys for IP and s and that is
causing problems with Interop with go
for switching over to IDI to five five
one nine keys by default so I'm going to
look at fixing that today our this week
for Liberty B keychain and Liberty to be
crypto so that we can get that deployed
out because the EFS work will be kind of
blocked on that otherwise we'll break IP
n s 4j s which won't be great yeah on
the ghost side of things we need to land
the sub domain gateway PR which I think
we're basically there we just need to
figure out some stuff around
do we need to canonical like do need to
canonicalize things so people go to the
same website whether they put it in is
whether they enter in the sub domain is
base 32 or base 36 or like how we want
some of the shenanigans around that we
need to figure out the otherwise the PR
to plan the elliptic curve keys by
default is pretty good including the key
rotation um however there are some IPTV
issues that we're causing shortness test
failures and IPTV doesn't really want to
upgrade right now so probably that's her
and I will be looking at that early this
week
[Music]
- speaking of subdomain gateways that is
the next Ashton I wrote that before I
got feedback from Edina and Peter so I
think we'll have to continue the
discussion about the canonical
representation yeah but although I think
that that's the only remaining point and
India it's fair - I don't like by the
bullet now or later
yeah some will still come back to their
PR that's it Oh stream bearish stream
content-based ranking research the
improvements reposition Norma cool so
yeah I think he's he's working on other
stuff so I'm just gonna pull that out of
here for now that makes sense
anyone from the rust team yeah
PTP wonderful yes so regarding Dorinda
for last week I had some time to start
the second iteration based on initial
feedback that Jacob provided for getting
to a next state of review I basically
need to work on four new things which
basically since basically I'm starting
for creating the creating artifact ring
in fact literally writing a better word
within the people but the end goal is
after we have the complete code just to
switch it up and put it in Jessup
instead since we don't get anything from
everything in separate module and yes so
for that I want to document first how I
plan to integrate it just a bit with so
that me and Jacob get more aligned with
implementation and then also I need to
implement some missing features the
garbage collecting in the cookies and
also integrate the sign pair records and
that's kind of the current status that I
am and I went to continue working on
this this week and also regarding the
next point the sign here records in
gossip 7.1 the sign clear records work
is ready for interview so I think it
should be not far away from getting
ready to be merged and in the gossips of
wonder twin stuff I've been doing some
progress which came in basically but
last week called spam protection PRS
merged and we are now working on getting
the direct peer connections part of the
spectrum and then we also will only need
the peer exchange which is spending on
the sign clear records but we can work
on branches for now and when we have
that we basically need 12 a big effort
of our own testing into end to I profess
and interrupt and all that stuff but
yeah that will be maybe for the next
week and yeah that's it for me
cool I think that is it for the major
initiatives so on to the other
initiatives University 1.5 in Goa that's
no update here as far as I know
further migration small tchotchkes in
the block star as I said earlier that
sir will be merged and will be in the
next release for the pinning system
revamp I've been obtained all the POS
like to have the latest change from
master put in in each of the repos so a
few outstanding questions on there ji
PFS call request we surround things like
like do we need to define direct and
recursive if we can just define depth
that kind of thing we can remove some
redundancy from from how we store pins
which would be quite nice and the
addition of metadata the news con
heavily influenced by clusters use case
and then just the ability to add
arbitrary metadata to a pin the answer
that's not something to be doing this
week well I'm going to do the release
and then I'm going to pick up a
Ralphie's shared across tabs that mean
oh yes the net share diverse node is the
next initiative coincidentally there's
actually pink system revamp no I was
just not sure I just I'll just go ahead
yeah so I was waiting mostly on reviews
last week I got some so I'll be trying
to address those this week not much that
had happened on that I've been working
on improving web file add sync I also
try to schedule a design review meeting
clusters but nobody really signed up for
that so maybe you could I partially it's
probably because I didn't really explain
what it was about so right now there's
some buffering happening on the client
side before it uploads happened but then
there's another piece that is
API is that are available like form data
doesn't really allow you to encode some
of the header informations that we
expect on an HTTP API and so I proposed
two different ways to go about that one
is would be to implement our own form
that as things that could handle that
but also avoid buffering but better yet
would be to not use that and actually be
able to use form data which in that case
would have to change HTTP API styling by
in a backwards compatible way so the
meeting for the design review is attempt
to kind of discuss which path we can go
with so I think somebody from go team
would be also helpful to have on that
call so that was kind of topic or on
topic or topic I did some implementation
on the web UI that proves the concept
but it doesn't use this JSI PFS h-2b
client right now it just uses the HTTP
itself but you prove that it's possible
so some time I spent trying to figure
out results are still not great
I think it's went from 42 seconds to 14
seconds on to gig updates uploads on a
local host which is much more than if
you compare to curl which does it in
three seconds I think it kind of been a
rabbit hole I think the problem is the
chunking that browsers do is much more
much more smaller I don't remember
numbers but they're all in the link
below request but it's way smaller than
what currently uses and I think that's
what makes a difference but I also
couldn't figure out if there's any way
to affect the chunking I don't think
there is however it's still much better
and it doesn't buffer so it doesn't run
out of memory and now I'm working on the
patch for the gsit HTTP client to take
some of this and make it part of the
sorry actual client
on your machine when you do if you do
like and I give us ad how long does it
take to add the same file like what no
issue two key things Oh straight away I
think I measured it was not that much
different from curl III it's in a pull
request I remember the number so yeah
but it was not reason much different
from adding this curl but I think the
difference also you can see difference
much more depending on the file size on
a smaller sizes you don't really see
that much difference but as you increase
the file size difference becomes more
clear
that is the end of the initiatives so
the design review proposal is in there
for the pinning services API spec and
also for improving the web file API
please add your name if you want to go
hopefully added my name right moving on
blockers and asks
questions we have a question from Ruben
is there really a use case for dense two
or three I mean what's the purpose then
an answer I think we need more of a
thing like shot at little X from top or
bottom this would allow to store large
files on the cluster and have each node
just store a stripe have a look at
scattering sharding here
okay my understanding of the depth was
that you want to say like here's a dag I
take a bit of that dag and then just
replicate a section of it rather than
replicate the other thing so if you pin
a CID that's not the root of this bit
and then say replicate like three levels
deep from there that was my
understanding
yeah I had one which is I don't know if
this is gonna be useful at all for the
pinning API stuff but one of the things
that was sort of nice about the really
slow store all of your pins in a tag
instead of a database is that you can
easily transport them is that something
we're still interested in using and if
so then do we want a way to be able to
like recreate a dag thing in J s given
that we're no longer using it as the
base representation cuz it's slow
because that was a question for a title
and Alex there's a comment from Stephen
somewhere that just said that that was
always the idea that you could you could
you know transfer this bag of pins
around and then no one actually did it
so as far as I know
there was no actual need for it but then
listening to - Lloyd will talk about
sending a CID then there's a tree of
things maybe there is but I mean also I
was
sorry I'd meant to catch it well as you
say that we can always create these
things on the fly as well that's not
like it has to be a permanent structure
well now I attended the opening summit
when wanna talk about CID structures and
he talked about implementing those all
with the textile threads which are tags
with a history so I'm not sure how that
fits into the pinning service picture
but that was always sort of always like
the ideal scope if we had unlimited time
and the resources I don't think will be
it's well it's not realistic to think
that we'll land thread like thread based
or thread backed pinning service so this
initial version would probably be very
simple but it should be created in a way
that does not block adding something
like that that version with threads that
handle all the history in the future but
roof I don't think it's in the scope
well so the simple version could be like
you could create the thread that just
contains one message really nothing else
and overtimes and you can actually
implement support for the longer strands
but yeah so I'm not just saying that's a
valid point so it would be useful to
look at the MVP version and see if it's
for bidding us from being bugged by
threads in the future because it's just
like API so I expect if we want to
extend it in the future
you
okay so it sounds like the answer to my
question was if we need to we will get
to it then and it may be that the struck
the dag structure we want four pins is
more complicated than the one that we
already have and our only using
internally so son right yeah I think
it's we will revisit it during the call
later this week I an example of that
proposed pin object which is like
indirect virtual way of representing
pins yeah
I'd said we we should like delay this
discussion until we think about it and
come to the call with a list of problems
it might be useful to pull in Karlsson
to the threads are being discussed
- we're almost out of time so I think
it's time to draw this meeting to a
close
so please do come to these design
discussions probably useful cool so this
has been the RFS confrontations weekly
sync for the 6th of July 2020 thank you
all for coming
I'll see you on the Internet